This module makes Downtime activities diceless and changes
several details of how they work.
***
## CREW PHASE
First, each cohort heals one level of Harm. Then resolve Fallout,
Payoff, Entanglements, Development, and Heat & Hold.
### fallout
The GM assesses the fallout from the score in the form of faction
Status changes and the amount of Heat gained.
Adjust the crew’s Status with factions affected by the score

| Modifier | Description                                                   |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| +1       | if the score significantly helped the faction                 |
| +2       | if the score was a major boon for the faction                 |
| -1       | if the score hurt the faction                                 |
| -2       | if the score was a major problem for the faction              |
| -3       | **Set Status to -3** if the crew initiated war with a faction |
Assess base Heat, plus any additional Heat from events on the score.

| Level     | Description                                                                                               |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| base      | 0 for a smooth, low exposure operation.<br>2 for a standard criminal operation.<br>+1 Heat per crew Tier. |
| target    | +2 for a high profile or well-connected target                                                            |
| chaos     | +2 for open combat, destruction, or mayhem.<br>+2 if you’re at war with another faction                   |
| death     | +4 if death occurred in connection to the score                                                           |
| witnesses | +2 if there are witnesses that can be questioned<br>or +4 if specific crew members were identified        |
### payoff
Determine the payoff from the score, rep gained, and any additional
Coin from seized assets.

|                  | Description                                                                                                                                           |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| payoff           | 1 Coin per PC, plus Coin equal to the target’s Tier x3                                                                                                |
| rep              | 1 Rep for every 2 Heat generated by the score.<br>+1 Rep per Tier of the target above the crew’s Tier                                                 |
| seized<br>assets | Take +4 Coin if you seize a load of cash. Very<br>valuable stolen items can be fenced for 2-8 Coin<br>(but you take 1 Heat for every 4 Coin of value) |
#### tithe
If you’re Tier 2 or lower, pay a tithe to your ward boss equal to 1 Coin
for every 4 Coin you earned from the score. If you can’t or won’t pay,
ask the GM if the boss will let you go into debt (see page 85), accept
a favor instead, or if their patience has run out.
#### vaults & banks
Determine where to deposit your Coin.

In addition to the crew’s vaults and the Scoundrel’s stashes, you may
deposit Coin in a bank. When your crew has wanted levels, you
lose access to all funds in the bank until you remove all your wanted
levels (or devise a way to gain illicit access). Some legitimate business
transactions (like a legal purchase of a property deed) may require
funds in a bank to complete.

- **Mardin Gull**, proprietor of the Leaky Bucket tavern in Tangletown,
runs an honest underworld bank which your crew may use as long
as you’re on good terms. You may deposit up to 20 Coin in this
bank, which is out of reach of the authorities.
- **Saltford’s**. An impregnable stone fortress at the docks; the oldest
private bank in Doskvol. The chief banker, Rosella Drake, follows
her family’s tradition of working with the underworld, allowing
Wanted crews to access their funds — for the small fee of 1 Coin per
Wanted Level. You may deposit any number of Coin in this bank.

### entanglements
If the crew’s Heat is 6+ or when the fiction demands, the GM brings
an entanglement into play. When the crew gains a wanted level, mark
crew xp and pick Bluecoats as the entanglement.

**Bluecoats** assail your crew with a severity according to your
Wanted Level (adjusted down by your positive faction Status
with the Bluecoats).
4: Lethal force, arrests, or destruction/seizure of lair and all assets.
3: Severe Beatings (Harm 3), an arrest, or destruction of assets.
2: Serious Beatings (Harm 2), interrogation, or seizure of assets.
1: Beatings (Harm 1), demands, observation/tailing.
0: Questioning, harassment, threats, observation/tailing.
*Bluecoats can be bought off for Coin equal to your wanted level +4.*

**Devilry:** A spirit or other supernatural entity is drawn to the
crew — perhaps a past victim, or an agent of an enemy faction?

**Favor:** A +2 or +3 Status faction asks you to do something for
them. Agree to do it or lose 1 Status with them.

**Flipped:** One of the PC’s rivals or an enemy convinces one of
your clients, contacts, or patrons to switch allegiances. Remove
them as an ally until you get that worked out.

**Rascals:** A cohort or contact causes problems for the crew. Smooth
things over with the aggrieved party, or lose Status with their faction.

**Show of Force:** A negative Status faction moves against you.
Make them an offer to back off (giving them Coin or a Claim
might appease them) or go to war.

**Under Their Thumb:** An authority (Bluecoats, Spirit Wardens,
Ministry Agents, Noble House, etc.) forces you to do their dirty
work, simply because they can. Do it or face reprisals (Bluecoats
entanglement, above, as if your Wanted Level was 1 higher).

**The Usual Suspects:** The Bluecoats pick up one of your
connections, contacts, or vice purveyors to question them. Make
a Fortune Roll based on their resilience and loyalty to see how
they hold up. The crew suffers 3 Heat minus the highest die.
### development
Instead of spending a lump-sum of Coin to rise in Tier, you invest
in crew upgrades over time to improve.

These crew upgrades cost Coin instead of crew advances:

| Upgrade                                                                                             | Coin |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---- |
| Camouflage, Rigging, or Underground Maps & Passkeys                                                 | 6    |
| Composed, Hardened, Ordained, or Steady (per box).<br>Ironhook Contacts, Ritual Sanctum.            | 8    |
| Barge, Lair Upgrade, Quality, or Training.<br>Mastery (per box). Upgrade a Cohort to Elite quality. | 10   |
Cohorts don’t cost Coin, they cost 2 crew advances to acquire, as
usual, since gathering loyal followers in the underworld requires time
and experience, not simply money.

 *The Bloodletters decide to upgrade their Lair by getting Hidden:*
*They move into the cellar of an abandoned distillery in Six Towers*
*and now the Bluecoats won’t come knocking on their door every*
*time they round up the usual suspects. This costs 10 Coin. For*
*the next upgrade, they decide that Hawkers Rigging will come*
*in handy, so they pay 6 Coin for that.*

*Later on, they add a cohort to the crew: an expert physicker on*
*call to treat their wounds. This requires 2 crew advances.*
#### tier advancement
To advance your crew’s Tier, you need to meet three requirements:
- Your rep track is full (including any reduction from turf).
- You have strong hold on your current Tier. (See “Assess Hold” on
the following page.)
- You possess the required number of upgrades and cohorts to
advance. (See the requirements on the next page.)

When you meet all the requirements, you advance to the next Tier
and clear your rep tracker.

| Tier    | Requirements                                     |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| 0>1<br> | Possess 6 crew upgrades and at least 1 Cohort    |
| 1>2     | Possess 8 crew upgrades and at least 2 Cohorts   |
| 2>3     | Possess 12 crew upgrades and at least 4 Cohorts. |
| 3>4     | Possess 20 crew upgrades and at least 6 Cohorts. |
#### increase faction status
You may also spend Coin to develop your Status with a faction you’re
not at war with. To improve your Status by 1, spend 6 Coin per Tier
of the faction. You can improve your status up to +2 with this method
— to get to +3 Status, you’ll have to earn it through your actions.

*The Remnant want to patch things up with the Ink Rakes, who*
*they’ve mistreated a bit in the past. To improve their faction Status*
*from -1 to 0, they need to pay 12 Coin since the Ink Rakes are Tier*
*two. A hefty sum, but at least the journalists won’t keep dragging*
*the Remnant’s name through the mud every chance they get.*

If you’re at war with a faction (Status -3) you might be able to negotiate
an end to hostilities and improvement in Status by offering Coin, but
they’ll likely demand even more Coin and other concessions in that case
### heat & hold
Finally, in the Crew Phase, assess your Heat and hold on your Tier.
#### reduce heat
For each +2 Status (or more) you have with a Tier 3+ faction, reduce
Heat by 1. The crew may further reduce Heat by 1 for each Coin or
Rep they expend. Ask the GM if there’s anything else you can do
to reduce Heat (like silencing a witness), what the cost or potential
consequence is, and how much Heat it will remove.
#### assess hold
Your crew’s hold on their Tier is measured by your number of turf
claims. To have strong hold on your Tier, you must have a number
of turf claims equal to or greater than your Tier. While your number
of turf claims is lower than your Tier, your hold is weak.

## SCOUNDREL PHASE

At the beginning of the Scoundrel phase, for each character:

- Restore your Armor and Special Armor.
- Remove all level 1 Harm. If you have a safe place to rest, add 1 tick to your healing clock.

The rest of downtime consists of Vice and Activities. Each player
can do these in any order. Each pursuit includes a question or two
to prompt roleplaying and future game play possibilities
### vice
When you indulge your vice, spend 1 Coin and clear all of your Stress.
If your stress level was 6 or more, you overindulge — your character
suffers a complication depending on your roll on the table below:

| Roll | Consequence                                                                                               |
| ---- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1    | Get Wild: Damage property; terrify citizens. Take<br>-1 Status with the appropriate faction or citizenry. |
| 2    | Big Spender: You indulge lavishly; spend +1 Coin.                                                         |
| 3    | Brag about your exploits. +1 Heat.                                                                        |
| 4    | Attract Trouble: Face an entanglement.                                                                    |
| 5    | Tapped: Your purveyor cuts you off. Find a new one.                                                       |
| 6    | Wasted: Your Vice costs a downtime activity.                                                              |
Instead of overindulgence, you can choose to be lost to your vice. Play
a different character until this one returns.
*What’s it like when you indulge? Ask the GM if your purveyor has*
*any rumors, gossip, job offers, opportunities, or warnings for you*
#### debt
You may go into debt with a provider if they agree. Note the initial
Coin you owe, then make a 4-segment clock and tick it every
Downtime you still owe the debt. If the clock fills, the provider takes
steps to get their money back. To remove a tick, pay Coin equal to
half the initial amount (round up) or do a favor. To resolve your
debt, pay the initial amount when you have no ticks on the clock

### activities
There are four Scoundrel downtime activities Acquire, Recover, Train,
and Work. If you have level 3 Harm or survived a mortal wound, you
must use at least one of your downtime activities to Recover.

Each Scoundrel may pursue two free activities during downtime.
Additional activities cost 1 Coin or 1 Rep each.
#### acquire
Gain temporary items, services, vehicles, or cohorts for the crew. Make
a 4-segment supply clock for the acquisition, to be ticked each time
it’s used in a consequential way.

- Pay 1 Coin for every level of Quality higher than the crew’s Tier.
- Pay +1 Coin for a special feature (hidden compartments, disguised or easily concealable, waterproof, etc.).
- If the acquisition is very rare, heavily regulated, restricted or prohibited, ask the GM how much extra Coin and/or Heat is required to get it, or if you’ll need to acquire it with a score.

Generally, the whole crew gains access to what's acquired, counting
each individual member's usage against the supply clock.

*The crew acquires the services of a veteran physicker (Quality 3)*
*to treat them during recovery. Since they're Tier 0, this costs 3*
*Coin. Each time the physicker treats a crew member, they tick the*
*usage clock. After four treatments, the physicker's service ends.*

You may acquire a personal item in the same manner, comparing its
Quality to your Lifestyle rating.

*Where do you go and who do you deal with to acquire what you seek?*
*You can ask the GM if they’ll take a favor instead of Coin.*
##### supply clocks
Supply clocks can be useful for a variety of applications, such as:
- A stockpile of illicit products for a Hawker crew to distribute
- Blackmail secrets obtained by a crew of Shadows
- Favors promised by a friend or ally
- Dwindling provisions used for survival in the deathlands
For a significant expenditure, tick the clock multiple times

#### recover
When you recover in a safe location, you gain ticks on your healing
clock equal to your crew’s Tier+1. When your healing clock fills,
reduce each instance of Harm you have by one level. When you remove
all Harm, clear your healing clock.

If you also engage the services of a Physicker, they remove an instance
of Harm with a level equal to or less than their Quality. Physickers on
the playbooks (like Sawtooth) are Quality 2. For each Coin you pay,
increase the Physicker’s Quality by one, for more extensive care.
#### hospital
Instead of recovering on your own, use this activity to stay in a private
hospital (there are no public hospitals in Doskvol). Remove all of
your Harm and choose: Take 1 Heat and pay 2 Coin -or- pay 3 Coin.
*When you recover, how are you vulnerable? Do you show the pain*
*of your injuries, open up to someone emotionally, or something else?*
#### train
Use this activity to spend xp to get an advance for your character.
(You don’t advance instantly as in standard Blades.)

Describe a training montage with an appropriate instructor, then spend
xp to advance. You can acquire an instructor if you don’t already have
one. You can also choose this activity to act as an instructor in an area of
your expertise. When you’re an instructor, you may spend xp to advance.

*What’s your relationship with your trainer? Has it changed? What’s*
*the most challenging or valuable part of your training session?*
#### work
Accomplish a simple project or work a quick side job to earn 1 Coin.
Ask the GM if you can charge more for your work, especially if you
work for a high Tier faction or wealthy client.

For a long term project, make an 8-segment clock. When you spend
an activity working on it, mark a number of ticks equal to your Action
rating. Add +1 tick if you have a workshop and/or other special
advantages. *Elaborate projects require multiple clocks to complete.*

*Who do you do work for? Ask the GM if there’s anything going on*
*with them. What challenge do you address on your project?*

## SYSTEM CHANGES
- A mechanic which gives +1d to reduce Heat rolls instead lowers
Heat by 1 during the Heat & Hold phase (page 84).
- +1d to healing rolls instead counts as 1 tick on the healing clock.
### special abilities
- **Connected:** Make a 6-clock called “Favor.” During downtime, tick this clock in place of spending Coin or taking Heat, 1-for-1. When the clock fills, one of your friends or allies calls on the crew for help with something. When you help them, clear the clock.
- **Functioning Vice:** When you indulge with a companion, your 1 Coin expenditure covers their Vice cost as well. When you overindulge, instead of a reaction, you may reset to 2 Stress.
- **Vigorous** becomes **Like Hardened Steel:** Permanently fill one segment of your healing clock. When you fight unarmed, your body is a fine weapon.
- **Physicker:** You can Tinker with bones, blood, and bodily humours to treat wounds. You can attempt to stabilize someone who just suffered a mortal injury. You may Study a poison, malady or corpse. In downtime, use the recover activity to act as a Physicker for those who recover (including yourself) with Quality equal to your Tinker rating. If you have level 3 or 4 Harm, you must recover before you use this ability in downtime.
- **Sinister Guile:** You get 2 free additional downtime activities.
### crews
- **Training Upgrades:** You always have access to a veteran instructor (Quality rating 3) in that area of expertise. Mastery gives you a Quality 4 instructor (and unlocks rating 4 actions). When you advance with one of these instructors, mark crew xp.
- **Vaults are bigger:** the first holds 8 Coin, the second holds 12.
- **No Traces:** When you take Heat in Downtime, reduce the total by 1. When you end downtime with zero Heat, take +1 Rep.
- **Patron:** You have a benefactor that helps your crew in Downtime by reducing one crew upgrade cost by 2 -or- reducing your Heat by 2. Who is your patron? Why do they help you?
- **Slippery:** Your effective Wanted Level is one less than its actual value (and may go up to 5). When you suffer an entanglement, reduce any Coin, Heat, or Rep cost you pay by one.
- **Warehouses (Claim):** The crew gains an additional Acquire activity each Downtime.